Basic algorithms and complexity

Most of the AIA modules present complicated algorithms, with the purpose of explaining the workings of the algorithm to students.  There is also a place for implementing a few basic algorithms, with the idea of demonstrating more abstract concepts.  One such concept is complexity.  Using the simpler algorithms, this team will develop input data sets that demosnstrate average, worst, and best case behavior,

Since the input data in AIA modules is generally relatively small, so that the detailed workings of the algorithm can be studied, a challenge for this team will be how to demonstrate the different behaviors, which may only be apparent with larger input data.  The team will develop design ideas for how to achieve this aim and consult further with the clients before implementing them. 

The algorithms this team will implement include: Insertion Sort, Selection Sort, 


A REAL specification is already available for Insertion Sort.  The team will need to develop a REAL specification  for Selection Sort, and consult with the clients before commencing animation of that module.



Notes from Lee:
Selection sort pseudocode is done (in this repo /algm/sorts/ - I guess
we should copy both to the main AIA repository if/when you think they
are ok)

As I've said, I'm not sure how best to demonstrate complexity in the AIA
framework and I'm not convinced that AIA is the right tool for this. We
already have options for different input versions.  It could be improved
in some cases (eg, Quicksort has the "Ideal" case and that generates new
data rather than permuting the existing data) but I'm not sure what else
the students would do here. I think having an insertion sort animation
is worthwhile (selection sort less so as it's a less useful algorithm).
If it's a good group and they knock these off with time to spare we
could get them to do another simple sorting algorithm (bubble sort comes
to mind, though it's not a good algorithm) or something similar such as
finding the median (adapting quicksort and using partition).

I guess we could give the URL stuff to this team, though it's not such a
good fit.




