
Mergesort

Reviewed 6 July Linda



Animation OK, a few things that could be improved (as student start-ups?)

1. Some things appear and disappear: left, right, call stack.  I see the problem with left and right -- the screen tets too crowded, but why not leave the stack?
Lee: the idea was to not show the stack if recursion isn't expanded
(could do the same with other recursive algorithms such as quicksort)

2. I still think that the call stack could be shown better:

- preferably IMHO graphically (part of a student project?)

- if not graphically, is there an easy way to show it vertically instead of horizontally?

- Call stack (n,p) -- n and p are not anywhere else.  Maybe add to the explanations?: e.g. linda 2 Mergesort(A,left,right), Add to explanation: In the call stack, n is left and p is right.  Similar for line 7 Mergesort(A left, mid): In the call stack, n is left, p is mid), etc?  Too many words?  I think it would be worth it.   
Lee: (n,p) has been fixed (copy-paste error from recursive DFS)
I agree we could to the stack in a more similar way to quicksort and rex
sort - I think I had a go initially but it got messy so I used a simpler
method
 

3. line 19

19
    while ap1 <= max1 and ap2 <= max2 

works OK when ap2 is in the middle of the array, but when ap2 increments off the rhs of the array in line 27 it just disappears, so the comparison at the next iteration of the while loop is not clear

27            ap2 <- ap2+1

ap2 is >max2, but this is not clear in the animation.

See input data: 40,64,22,66,52,50,15,45,69,22,74,55,78,89
Expanded
266/367  72%  Sorry, I didn't see the URL option you've been talking about

Is it possible to show ap2 -- making the array larger -- again, not for Lee to do, but as a starter for a student group?
Lee: noted but not fixed yet

Background is good, doesn't need any more work.







Colors (no problem -- just noted in case we want to easily check for consistency with other algorithms or give names to the color choices)



